DOCS-9458-email-trigger-editorial-kt (#1145)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: email/1.3/modules/ROOT/edits/email-trigger.adoc

= Trigger a Flow When Receiving a New Email Examples - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::email/email-trigger.adoc

> The following examples illustrate how you configure the Anypoint Connector for Email (Email Connector) source listeners *On New Email - IMAP* and *On New Email - POP3* to identify and retrieve unread email messages, initiating a flow.

Reviewer: Again, if these are the names of the source listeners outside the UI as well as in, as a label, this context might indicate that boldface is not required.
The point of the boldface is to highlight something upon which a user takes action, in the moment, as in a step. Outside of a task, that emphasis is not necessary.
But this is a fine point, and not one that will necessarily affect audience comprehension other than subtly....
I'm going to stop mentioning it in this set of topic edits, now that I have several times already. lol

> == Configure Delete After Retrieve Parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure the Delete After Retrieve Parameter
```

> Email Connector *On New Email - IMAP* and *On New Email - POP3* sources support the *Delete after retrieve* parameter that enables the deletion of retrieved emails from the mailbox folder after the operation process is complete. By deleting processed emails, you can ensure that the next processed emails are new ones. Because the POP3 protocol doesn't support watermarking, the *Delete after retrieve* parameter is commonly used with this protocol. +

Reviewer: The second sentence might be a bit hard to quickly parse, keeping straight "the processed emails" vs. "the next processed emails." What do you think about something like this...:
```suggestion
Email Connector *On New Email - IMAP* and *On New Email - POP3* sources support the *Delete after retrieve* parameter that enables the deletion of emails from the mailbox after the operation that they set in motion is complete, ensuring that the next operation is based on newly received emails. Because the POP3 protocol doesn't support watermarking, the *Delete after retrieve* parameter is commonly used with this protocol. +
```
It might be better to lead up to the parameter in this way:
1. POP3 doesn't support watermarking.
2. This makes identifying emails belonging to separate operations difficult if they congregate in the mailbox.
3. To ensure that the emails in the mailbox are current, enable *Delete after retrieve*, so that only unprocessed email resides in the mailbox as a flow proceeds.

problem/reason > solution

Reviewer: QUESTION: The parameter is named `Delete after retrieve` but it sounds like the email is NOT deleted after retrieval so much as after the process that it initiates is completed. Do we need to clarify this?

> The parameter is disabled by default to avoid deleting emails by mistake.

Reviewer: I don't understand this. So there are circumstances under which a user would want both processed and unprocessed email in the mailbox? How could it be a mistake to delete email after it no longer serves its purpose?

Reviewer: (I know connector docs don't use them, but I would normally suggest a graphic depiction of this process of incoming email, retrieved email, operation processing, deleting email, moving to new incoming email....)

.Delete after retrieve with On New Email - IMAP operation
image::email-delete-1.png[Delete after retrieve with On New Email - IMAP]

In the XML editor, the configuration `deleteAfterRetrieve="true"` is under the `listener-imap` tag:
[source, xml, linenums]
----
<flow name="OnNewEmail-IMAP">
		<email:listener-imap config-ref="Email_IMAP" watermarkEnabled="false" deleteAfterRetrieve="true">
			<scheduling-strategy >
				<fixed-frequency />
			</scheduling-strategy>
		</email:listener-imap>
	</flow>
----

The following screenshot shows the *Delete after retrieve* configuration for the *On New Email - POP3* source:

.Delete after retrieve with On New Email - POP3 operation
image::email-delete-2.png[Delete after retrieve with On New Email - POP]

In the XML editor, the configuration `deleteAfterRetrieve="true"` is under the `listener-pop3` tag:
[source, xml, linenums]
----
<flow name="OnNewEmail-POP3">
  <email:listener-pop3 config-ref="Email_POP3" deleteAfterRetrieve="true">
    <scheduling-strategy >
      <fixed-frequency />
    </scheduling-strategy>
  </email:listener-pop3>
</flow>
----

> == Configure the Enable Watermark Parameter

Reviewer: Ah! Now that I see this, I wonder if the intro text that follows the L1 title could include something about the need to identify separate operations in a stream of incoming email, and that there are two methods: deleting email as it is used, and watermarking.
We could even state in the previous subtopic's beginning that although IMAP supports both methods, POP3 supports only Delete.

Reviewer: Dang it! I'm sorry...here I go performing CU again.
Okay, I swear...I am going to focus on CE and not format or wording options from this point onward!

> Email Connector can watermark emails over the IMAP protocol by filtering emails based on their received date. The *On New Email - IMAP* source supports the *Enable Watermark* parameter that enables to dispatch only messages containing emails received after the last poll executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email Connector can watermark emails over the IMAP protocol by received date. The *On New Email - IMAP* source supports the *Enable Watermark* parameter, causing only those messages containing emails received after the last poll executed to be dispatched.
```

The following example shows how to configure this parameter in Anypoint Studio:

. Select the *On New Email - IMAP* source in the Studio canvas.
. On the source configuration screen, enable the *Enable Watermark* parameter.

> The following screenshot shows this parameter configuration for the source:

Reviewer: "...for the IMAP source"?

.Enable Watermark with On New Email - IMAP source
image::email-watermark-1.png[Enable Watermark with On New Email - IMAP]

In the XML editor, the configuration `watermark="true"` is under the `listener-imap` tag:

[source, xml, linenums]
----
<flow name="OnNewEmail-IMAP">
    <email:listener-imap config-ref="Email_IMAP" watermark="true">
        <scheduling-strategy>
            <fixed-frequency/>
        </scheduling-strategy>
    </email:listener-imap>
</flow>
----

> == Configure IMAP Matcher and POP3 Matcher Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure the IMAP Matcher and POP3 Matcher Parameters
```

> Email Connector *On New Email - IMAP* and *On New Email - POP3* sources support *Imap matcher* and *Pop3 matcher* parameters that enable you to configure custom matchers  and provide another way of filtering dispatched messages. Each source matcher can filter emails by dates, addresses, subject, flags, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email Connector *On New Email - IMAP* and *On New Email - POP3* sources support *Imap matcher* and *Pop3 matcher* parameters that enable you to configure custom matchers and thereby provide another way of filtering dispatched messages. Each source matcher can filter emails by dates, addresses, subject, flags, and so on.
```
"dispatched messages" or "received messages"?
What are the message states; what is dispatching them originally, receiving them, dispatching them again to be processed, deleted if not watermarked, processed?

The following example shows how to configure these parameters in Anypoint Studio by dispatching all messages that contain the word `IMPORTANT`:

. Select the *On New Email - IMAP* or *On New Email - POP3* source in the Studio canvas.
. On the source configuration screen, for the *Imap matcher* or *Pop3 matcher* parameters, select either:

* *Edit inline* +

> Set all the inline fields *Seen*, *Answered*, *Deleted*, *Recent*, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manually set all the inline fields: *Seen*, *Answered*, *Deleted*, *Recent*, and so on.
```

* *Global reference* +

> Create a global reference configuration to set all the inline fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a global reference configuration to automatically set all the inline fields.
```

[start=3]

> . In the *Subject regex* field, set the value as `IMPORTANT`.

Reviewer: "set the value" how? type? select?

> The following screenshot shows the *Imap matcher*  edit inline configuration for the *On New Email - IMAP* source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following screenshot shows the *Imap matcher* edit inline configuration for the *On New Email - IMAP* source:
```

.Imap matcher with On New Email - IMAP source
image::email-imap-matcher.png[Imap matcher with On New Email - IMAP]

In the XML editor, the configuration `imap-matcher subjectRegex="IMPORTANT"` is under the `listener-imap` tag:

[source, xml, linenums]
----
<flow name="OnNewEmail-IMAP">
    <email:listener-imap config-ref="Email_IMAP">
        <scheduling-strategy>
            <fixed-frequency/>
        </scheduling-strategy>
        <email:imap-matcher subjectRegex="IMPORTANT"/>
    </email:listener-imap>
</flow>
----

> == Configure Attachment Naming Strategy Parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure the Attachment Naming Strategy Parameter
```

> Email Connector *On New Email - IMAP*, *On New Email - POP3*, *List - IMAP*, and *List - POP3* operations support the *Attachment naming strategy* parameter, which enables you to specify a strategy for naming attachments. You can set the parameter at the global element or override it at the operation level. The parameter has the following options to choose from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email Connector *On New Email - IMAP*, *On New Email - POP3*, *List - IMAP*, and *List - POP3* operations support the *Attachment naming strategy* parameter, which enables you to specify a strategy for naming attachments. You set the parameter in a global element and then override it, if necessary, at the operation level. The parameter has the following options:
```
Is this intentionally different, setting globally and overriding operationally vs. setting globally vs. setting manually?

* *NAME (Default)* +

> Email Connector names the attachment after the value of the `filename` field in the `Content-Disposition` line of the attachment (this is the standard and recommended option to set the name for an attachment). If the `filename` field is not present or is empty, then the attachment is named `Unnamed`.

Reviewer: I think that identifying this as the default assumes the parenthetical statement:
```suggestion
Email Connector names the attachment after the value of the `filename` field in the `Content-Disposition` line of the attachment. If the `filename` field is not present or is empty, then the attachment is named `Unnamed`.
```

> If multiple attachments have no name, they are called `Unnamed`, `Unnamed_1`, `Unnamed_2`, and so on, so that they are addressed individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple attachments have no name, they are called `Unnamed`, `Unnamed_1`, `Unnamed_2`, and so on.
```

* *NAME_HEADERS* +
Email Connector first tries to obtain the name from the `filename` field in the `Content-Disposition` line (the same as when using `NAME`). If that fails, the connector looks for the `name` header in the `Content-Type` line of the attachment. If the `name` header is not present or is empty, then the attachment is named `Unnamed`.
* *NAME_HEADERS_SUBJECT* +

> Email Connector tries the two previously described options. If both fail, then the connector checks if the attachment itself is an email (a nested message) and looks for the subject of the email. If the subject is not empty, then the attachment is named after the subject. Otherwise, the attachment is named `Unnamed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If both *NAME_HEADERS* and *NAME_HEADERS_SUBJECT* fail, then the connector checks if the attachment itself is an email (a nested message) and looks for the subject of the email. If the subject is not empty, then the attachment is named after the subject. Otherwise, the attachment is named `Unnamed`.
```

Reviewer: BUT how do the two previous fail, if they automatically end up with 'Unnamed"?

The following example shows how to configure this parameter in the global element:

. In Studio, navigate to the *Global Element* view and click *Create* to open the *Choose Global Type* window.

> . In the *Filter* box, type `email` and choose either *Email IMAP* or *Email POP3*, and click *OK*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Filter* box, type `email`, choose either *Email IMAP* or *Email POP3*, and click *OK*.
```

> . In the *Global Element Properties* window, in the main *Advanced* tab, for the *Attachment naming strategy* field select one of the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Global Element Properties* window, in the main *Advanced* tab, for the *Attachment naming strategy* field, select one of the following options:
```
How about...:
```suggestion
. In *Global Element Properties* > *Advanced* > *Attachment naming strategy*, select one of the following options:
```

* *NAME*
* *NAME_HEADERS*
* *NAME_HEADERS_SUBJECT*

. In the *General* tab, for *Connection* select any of the connection types to provide to the configuration.

> . Specify the connection information for the connector, such as *Host*, *Port* and *TLS configuration*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify the connection information for the connector, such as *Host*, *Port*, and *TLS configuration*.
```

<email:imap-config name="gmail" attachmentNamingStrategy="NAME">
  <email:imap-connection host="imap.gmail.com" port="993" user="user@gmail.com" password="mypassword">
  </email:imap-connection>
</email:imap-config>
----

The following example shows how to override the naming strategy at the *On New Email - IMAP* source level:

. Select the *On New Email - IMAP* source in the Studio canvas.
. On the source configuration screen, in the *Advanced* tab, for the *Attachment naming strategy* field select one of the following options:

* *NAME*
* *NAME_HEADERS*
* *NAME_HEADERS_SUBJECT*

The following screenshot shows the *Attachment naming strategy* override at the *On New Email - IMAP level* source:

.Attachment naming strategy override source level
image::email-attachment-2.png[Attachment naming strategy override source level]

In the XML editor, the configuration `attachmentNamingStrategy="NAME"` is under the `listener-imap` tag:

[source, xml, linenums]
----
<flow name="OnNewEmail-IMAP">
		<email:listener-imap  config-ref="Email_IMAP" attachmentNamingStrategy="NAME">
			<scheduling-strategy >
				<fixed-frequency />
			</scheduling-strategy>
		</email:listener-imap>
	</flow>
----

> == Configure Enable Remote Search for IMAP Matcher Parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure the Enable Remote Search for IMAP Matcher Parameter
```

When using the *On New Email - IMAP* source and *Imap matcher* parameter, you can specify whether you want the filters to be applied server-side by enabling the *Enable Remote Search* parameter.

This parameter is disabled by default because some email servers are not fully compliant with `rfc-3501` search terms. Enabling the parameter decreases traffic by reducing the number of emails sent to the client-side for processing.

> For this feature to be fully functional, the email server should at least support the use of the basic filtering flags: *Answered*, *Deleted*, *Seen* and *Recent*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this feature to be fully functional, the email server should support the use of at least the basic filtering flags: *Answered*, *Deleted*, *Seen* and *Recent*.
```

> The following example shows how to configure this parameter in Anypoint Studio by enabling server side filtering to exclude all answered emails:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to configure this parameter in Anypoint Studio by enabling server-side filtering to exclude all answered emails:
```
